Java release policy (#675)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/java/release-policy.mdx

---
id: release-policy
title: Minor and Major Release Policy for the SAP Cloud SDK for Java
sidebar_label: Release Policy
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - cloud native
  - cloud sdk
  - sap cloud sdk
  - upgrade
  - strategy
  - major
  - release
  - support
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::info relevance

This release policy only applies to the SAP Cloud SDK for Java.
Find release policy for the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript [here](../js/release-policy.mdx)

:::

## Planned Major Releases

The SAP Cloud SDK for Java follows [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/).

| Version | Status      | Release Date          | Planned scope | Upgrade guide |
| :------ | ----------- | :-------------------- | :------------ | ------------- |
| 3.x     | Released GA | August 2019 | N/A           |               |
| 4.x     | Planned     | July 2022             | TBD           | TBD           |
| 5.x     | Planned     | January 2023          | TBD           | TBD           |

## Minor and Major Release Policy

> We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for our releases.

Reviewer: This section does not provide any new information and should either be removed entirely (we already outlined that we are using semantic versioning) or merged together with the following sections IMO.

### Minor release schedule

Our regular **minor version** release happens every **two weeks**.
It includes new functionality, fixes, and maintenance updates that we communicate in the [release notes](./release-notes.mdx).

We sometimes change our release frequency to:

> - Provide a **hot fix** release.
>   It is delivered as a patch version to the latest minor release when a critical bug fix is necessary.
> - Accommodate a longer development cycle.
>   We can extend an interval between **minor version** releases.

Author: ```suggestion
- Provide a patch version to the latest minor release when a critical bug fix is necessary.
- Accommodate a longer development cycle.
  We can extend an interval between **minor version** releases.
```

> :::tip "Upgrading between minor releases"

Reviewer: Is there a specific reason to use quotes here?

```suggestion
:::tip Upgrading between minor releases
```

Author: I think both versions work, but the quote less looks cleaner.

Usually, an upgrade between minor releases does not involve any effort.
All the changes are incremental and backward compatible.
We do not remove any deprecated code before the next major release.

:::

### Major release schedule

We intend to release a new **major version** every **six months** to introduce significant feature upgrades, refactor existing features, and clean up deprecated code.

> - **Major version** release interval is indicative and can be changed.

Reviewer: [Minor]

Personally, I'd prefer the following wording:

```suggestion
- **Major version** release interval is indicative and may change.
```

> - We will announce planned date and scope of the next **major version** release in this [document](#planned-major-release-schedule) and [release notes](./release-notes.mdx) at least 3 months before the planned release date.

Reviewer: > at least 3 months before the planned release date

Not sure if that is actually realistic to do (maybe depends on what we understand as "release notes" here).
What about something like _(feature) scope_ instead of _"release notes"_?

Author: This will be a link to the separate document, not added inline to the policy or the release notes. Is that your concern?

Reviewer: No, my concern is more about the _"3 months before the planned release date"_.
I'm worried that we won't have concrete _"release notes"_ at that point in time.
Maybe it's just the phrase _"release notes"_, which for me means very detailed descriptions of what will be changed (similar to what we already do for our regular releases).

Reviewer: Ahh.... now I see. 😅
I misunderstood your sentence as follows:

"We are going to announce the scope **and** release notes 3 months ahead of time"

while you are actually saying

"We are going to announce the scope on this page (here) and on the release notes page".

Sorry for the confusion!

> :::caution "Upgrading between major versions"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution Upgrading between major versions
```

> Major releases include incompatible API changes.

Reviewer: This is not a given, right?

```suggestion
Major releases may include incompatible API changes.
```

Author: It's a given. That is what defines major release. The fact they might not touch you code line doesn't deny the fact.

An upgrade will usually involve a certain effort to make your code benefit from new APIs.
We intend to minimize this effort between adjacent major versions.

- We provide a step-by-step upgrade guide for each major version.
- Following the upgrade steps should take less than a day of development effort regardless of the project size.

:::

### Documentation

The documentation is always up to date with the **latest major release**.
We provide documentation for the two most recent major versions at the same time.
We will use tabs to demonstrate a difference between them where required.
See example below

<Tabs groupId="version" defaultValue="major" values={[ { label: 'SDK 4.x', value: 'major' }, { label: 'SDK 3.x', value: 'deprecated' } ]}>

> <TabItem value="major">

Reviewer: I have some doubts with regards to whether this is actually a good and maintainable approach.
Especially in cases where concepts change in between major versions (e.g. our ThreadContext concept might get a bigger refactoring in the future) this approach could lead to an entire page being wrapped inside such a table.
Even more, what if our current documentation structure does no longer fit the actual code? We then had to somehow introduce some ugly workarounds and/or have semi-optimal documentation.

Why are we not using the versioning feature of Docusaurus?

Reviewer 2: +1, also we don't have to document this here at this point in time. This only becomes relevant once we start releasing documentation.

Author: That's a part of the strategy and I see it relevant. On the other hand, if you see it differently suggest options, and let's discuss. This worked well for JS, we had a bigger discussion there.

Where concepts do not meet we can have a case-by-case approach. It might be not as complex as you think it is.

```

Major version documentation

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="deprecated">

```

Deprecated version documentation

```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> With every new major version release, the oldest documented version is removed from the documentation portal.

Reviewer: IMO this is a big disadvantage of the suggested approach.
Not only do we have to (potentially) add a whole lot of documentation for new/updated functionality, we would also need to remove all of the older documentation (which is still valid and might help customers who are still on an older version).

Author: That's why we provide a release TAG in our Docs so that customers can self-host the docs for their version.
Public docs will have only 2 versions at all times - prev and current.

Author: Most of the docs will be relevant and won't change. Only parts that are touched by the change will be affected.

:::tip

> We will always provide a branch with the latest snapshot of the documentation before the major version release.

Reviewer 2: pretty strong statement, I would not make that at this point in time

Author: We discussed that we can simply put a release TAG to the docs and then explain how to fetch it and run npm install, npm run start. This doesn't seem like a challenge. Or did you mean smth different?

:::

### Maintenance and Support

- We provide new features and fixes **only** for the **latest major release** of the SAP Cloud SDK for Java.

> - We continue to [support](./../overview/support.mdx) customers using any version of the SAP Cloud SDK for Java.

Reviewer 2: to me this reads much clearer now, thanks!

We provide new features and fixes only for the **latest major release** of the SAP Cloud SDK for Java.

> :::tip "Upgrade early"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip Upgrade early
```

We recommend upgrading to the latest major version immediately or at least not later than within 3 months after its release.
This guarantees:

- easy upgrade path
- comparability to latest features of SAP Business Technology Platform at all times
- protection of your development process from disruptions in the future.
  Upgrading gets more complex if you have to migrate between more than one major version.

:::

## Support and feedback

Let us know if you have any questions about our release policy.
We usually respond within one day.

> Check our [support channels](../overview/support.mdx) and chose the one working best for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check our [support channels](../overview/support.mdx) and choose the one working best for you.
```

---
id: release-policy
title: Minor and Major Release Policy for the SAP Cloud SDK for Java
sidebar_label: Release Policy
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - cloud native
  - cloud sdk
  - sap cloud sdk
  - upgrade
  - strategy
  - major
  - release
  - support
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> :::info relevance

Reviewer 2: Hmm, this is explicitly under the Java section, so why should it be here and not on every other article...

Personally I don't mind it being here, except that it feels a little awkward to be at the very top, but I guess there is not really a better place to put it. So I'd be just fine to leave it here...

This release policy only applies to the SAP Cloud SDK for Java.
Find release policy for the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript [here](../js/release-policy.mdx)

:::

## Planned Major Releases

The SAP Cloud SDK for Java follows [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/).

| Version | Status      | Release Date          | Planned scope | Upgrade guide |
| :------ | ----------- | :-------------------- | :------------ | ------------- |
| 3.x     | Released GA | January 2019 (fix me) | N/A           |               |
| 4.x     | Planned     | July 2022             | TBD           | TBD           |
| 5.x     | Planned     | January 2023          | TBD           | TBD           |
| 6.x     | Planned     | July 2023             | TBD           | TBD           |

## Minor and Major Release Policy

> We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for our releases.

Author: Didn't get what kind of top?

> We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for our releases.

Author: I'd keep the table with the release plan on top at all times. That will be the only reason for users to return to this page and at the end that's the most relevant information.

> We follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for our releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for our releases.
```

> We follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for our releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for our releases.
```

### Minor release schedule

Our regular **minor version** release happens every **two weeks**.
It includes new functionality, fixes, and maintenance updates that we communicate in the [release notes](./release-notes.mdx).

We sometimes change our release frequency to:

> - Provide a **hot fix** release.

Reviewer 2: we rarely release a patch version in the regular bi-weekly cycle

  - Provide a **hot fix** release.
    It is delivered as a patch version to the latest minor release when a critical bug fix is necessary.
  - Accommodate a longer development cycle.
    We can extend an interval between **minor version** releases.

:::tip  "Upgrading between minor releases"

> Usually, an upgrade between minor releases do not involve any effort.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Usually, an upgrade between minor releases does not involve any effort.
```

We do not remove any deprecated code before the next major release.

:::

### Major release schedule

We intend to release a new **major version** every **six months** to introduce significant feature upgrades, refactor existing features, and clean up deprecated code.

- **Major version** release interval is indicative and can be changed.
- We will announce planned date and scope of the next **major version** release in this [document](#planned-major-release-schedule) and [release notes](./release-notes.mdx) at least 3 months before the planned release date.

:::caution "Upgrading between major versions"

Major releases include incompatible API changes.

> An upgrade will usually involve a certain effort to make your code benefit from new APIs.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if I'd say that. There may be many customers who don't need to change anything with a particular upgrade. E.g. when removing CXSDK. Maybe we can rephrase a little, pointing out that not every upgrade will require adaptations & for each upgrade we will have detailed instructions where changes are needed.

We intend to minimize this effort between adjacent major versions.

- We provide a step-by-step upgrade guide for each major version.
- Following the upgrade steps should take less than a day of development effort regardless of the project size.

:::

### Documentation

The documentation is always up to date with the **latest major release**.
We provide documentation for the two most recent major versions at the same time.
We will use tabs to demonstrate a difference between them where required.
See example below

<Tabs groupId="version" defaultValue="major" values={[ { label: 'SDK 4.x', value: 'major' }, { label: 'SDK 3.x', value: 'deprecated' } ]}>

<TabItem value="major">

```

Major version documentation

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="deprecated">

```

Deprecated version documentation

```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

With every new major version release, the oldest documented version is removed from the documentation portal.

:::tip

We will always provide a branch with the latest snapshot of the documentation before the major version release.
You can use that branch to host documentation for the earlier version locally.

:::

### Fixes, Support, and Maintenance

> We provide new features and fixes only for the **latest major release** of the SAP Cloud SDK for Java.

Reviewer 2: I feel that one sentence is a bit short for this topic. I'd elaborate a bit more. E:g. what are "fixes"? Also, as a customer I'd not be happy to hear that if I am on the latest version e.g. 3.70  and 4.0 is released I immediately loose "support" for 3.70 until I upgrade.

Reviewer 3: I agree with Matthias here, loosing support immediately for the previous major version when a new one is released could be an issue for customers.
What about the idea of extending support for a fixed time say for e.g 2-3 months, but maybe only fix critical security issues for the previous version then?

Author: I'd put it in the separate doc and only after we find it useful. This feels like overplanning to me. We can fix/improve it at any time it becomes obvious as a value for the customer. Now I doubt it.

I also wouldn't bind us with the last line in your suggestion. We most probably don't do it. "For a while" - is not a timeframe.
